hi in the previous video we introduced
the idea of reward hacking an AI system
that works by maximizing its reward like
a reinforcement learning agent will go
for whatever strategy it expects will
result in the highest reward and there's
a tendency for the strategies that have
the very highest rewards to be quite
different from the kinds of strategies
the AI designers were planning for for
example if you're using the score as the
reward in Super Mario World the highest
reward strategy might involve exploiting
a load of glitches to directly update
the score value rather than properly
playing the game we talked about some
ways that this can happen exploiting
bugs in the software like in Mario or
adversarial examples in neural networks
if you're confused right now check the
video description for the earlier videos
in this series but in this video we're
going to look at some more ways that
reward hacking can happen and how they
relate to one another so let's start by
drawing a diagram I can't believe I
already got this foreign to the subject
without drawing this diagram anyway
here's your agent here's the environment
the agent can take actions to affect the
environment and it can observe the
environment to get information about
what state the environments in there's
also a reward system which uses
information from the environment to
determine what reward to give the agent
so if the agent is pac-man the
environment is the maze and the reward
system is just looking at the score the
agent takes an action the action affects
the environment the change in the
environment creates new observations and
also provides a new information to the
reward system which decides what reward
to give the agent and the agent uses the
observation and the reward to decide
which action to take next and this kind
of goes in a cycle reward hacking is a
class of problems that can happen around
that reward system like in the previous
video we were talking about adversarial
examples and how they can be an issue
when your reward system relies on a
neural network but that's not the only
way this kind of problem can happen the
economist Charles Goodhart once said any
observed statistical regularity will
tend to collapse once pressure is placed
upon it for control purposes but despite
being true that was not very catchy so
it was changed to when a measure becomes
a target it ceases to be a good measure
much better isn't it that's good hearts
law and it shows up everywhere
like if you want to find out how much
students know about a subject you can
ask them questions
it's about it right you design a test
and if it's well designed it can be a
good measure of the students knowledge
but if you then use that measure as a
target by using it to decide which
students get to go to which universities
or which teachers are considered
successful then things will change
students will study exam technique
teachers will teach only what's on the
test so student a who has a good broad
knowledge of the subject might not do as
well as student B who studied just
exactly what's on the test and nothing
else so the test isn't such a good way
to measure the student's real knowledge
anymore the thing is student B only
decided to do that because the test is
being used to decide university places
you made your measure into a target and
now it's not a good measure anymore the
problem is the measure is pretty much
never a perfect representation of what
you care about and any differences can
cause problems this happens with people
it happens with AI systems it even
happens with animals and the Institute
for marine mammal studies the trainer's
wanted to keep the pools clear of
dropped litter
so they trained the Dolphins to do it
every time a dolphin came to a trainer
with a piece of litter they would get a
fish in return so of course the Dolphins
would hide pieces of waste paper and
then tear off little bits to trade for
fish tearing the paper up allowed the
Dolphins to get several fish for one
dropped item this is kind of good hearts
lure again if you count the number of
pieces of litter removed from the pool
that's a good measure for the thing you
care about the amount of litter
remaining in the pool but when you make
the measure a target the differences
between the measure and the thing you're
trying to change get amplified the fact
that there are a lot of pieces of litter
coming out of the pool no longer means
there's no litter in the pool so that's
good hearts law and you can see how that
kind of situation could result in reward
hacking your reward system needs to use
some kind of measure but that turns the
measure into a target so it will
probably stop being a good measure with
dolphins this can be cute with people it
can cause serious problems and with
advanced AI systems well let's just try
to keep that from happening
another way that reward hacking can
happen comes from partially observed
goals in our super mario world or pacman
examples the goal is fully observed the
reward is the score and the AI can just
read the score out of memory and it
knows it's reward but if we have an AI
system acting as
agent in the real world the reward
depends on the state of the environment
around it and the AI only has partial
knowledge of that through the robots
limited senses the goal is only
partially observed suppose we have a
cleaning robot with its mop and bucket
and we wanted to clean the office that
it's in so we can set it up so that it
gets more reward the less mess there is
like we subtract a bit of reward for
each bit of mess and the way it
determines the level of mass is to look
around the room with its cameras what
does this robot do well the answer is
obvious to anyone who's ever run for
Parliament in Maidenhead the old Skyrim
shoplifters trick if it covers up its
cameras say by putting its bucket on its
head it won't see any mess so it won't
lose any reward you've probably heard
about experiments on rats where
scientists implanted electrodes into the
rats brains allowing them to directly
stimulate their reward centers and if
the rats are able to press a button to
activate the electrode they never do
anything else people call that wire
heading and it's relevant here because
if we take our pac-man reinforcement
learning diagram and change it to the
cleaning robot it's not quite right is
it in pac-man the reward system is just
a little bit of code that runs
separately from the game program and
just reads the score out but for the
cleaning robot the reward system is a
real thing in the real world it's got
cameras sensors circuitry it physically
exists as an object in the office
so maybe the diagram should look more
like this because unlike in pac-man now
the reward system is part of the
environment which means it can be
affected by the actions of the agent the
agent isn't just limited to messing with
the environment to affect the
information going into the reward system
like putting a bucket on its head it can
mess with the reward system itself if
it's able to take the thing apart and
make it just returned maximum reward
regardless of what the environment is
like well that's an extremely high
reward strategy so some AI designs are
prone to deliberately tampering with
their reward systems to wire head
themselves but that's not the worst of
it there are a lot of AGI design
proposals out there where the reward is
determined by human smiling or being
happy
or saying certain things hitting a
certain button or whatever these designs
effectively make the human a component
in the reward system but whatever the
reward system is the agent is
incentivized to manipulate or modify it
to get the highest reward it can with
powerful general AI systems we don't
just have to worry about the AI wire
heading itself I want to end the video
with a quick thank you to my excellent
patreon supporters all of these people
in this video I especially want to thank
Robert Sanderson who's supported the
channel for a long time you know just
the other day my phone completely broke
and the phone is actually pretty
important because I use it to shoot all
of the behind-the-scenes stuff anything
random traveling that kind of thing so I
had to get a new one and I was able to
use patreon money to do that so I just
want to say thank you so much for your
support thanks again and I'll see you
next time